Native interop rewrite (#13462)
flutter/website: sites/docs/src/content/platform-integration/android/request-permission.md

---
title: "Request Android permissions"
description: "Request and manage Android permissions from jni code using a plugin"
---

## Overview

This page details a means to use `jnigen` to wrap native Android code and package that functionality
as a plugin. It demonstrates requesting and querying Android permissions natively from Flutter.

With this flow, one only has to edit a single file on the Android side.

The code for [this plugin][] can be found here.

> ## How It Works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How it works
```

    JObject context,
    String permission,
    Function callback,
  ) {
    // Do I have permission?
    if (ContextCompat.checkSelfPermission(context, permission.toJString()) ==
        PackageManager.PERMISSION_GRANTED) {
      callback();
    } else if (ActivityCompat.shouldShowRequestPermissionRationale(
          Jni.androidActivity(PlatformDispatcher.instance.engineId!),
          permission.toJString(),
        ) ==
        true) {
      // Has the user denied the permission before?
      // Give a reason why I need the permission
      // and allow a re-request
      print("I should ask for permission");
      // TODO Flow to show UI to reshow perms dialog
      return -2;
    } else {
      // Ask for permission
      ActivityCompat.requestPermissions(
        Jni.androidActivity(PlatformDispatcher.instance.engineId!),
        JArray.of(JString.type, [permission.toJString()]),
        0,
      );
    }
    return 0;
  }
}

```

### Using the plugin in an app 

Using this implementation of permissions means you only need to edit one bit of Android code to
add the possible permissions into the app's `AndroidManifest.xml` file. If the permission

> does not exist in that file, `checkAndRequestPermission` will fail silently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not exist in that file, `checkAndRequestPermission` fails silently.
```
